# New Yorker(2017)

__The Bland Likability of “The Big Sick”__
By Richard Brody June 26, 2017

Azmat delivers the classic immigrants’ aria that may well be familiar to first-generation children of any ethnicity, the story of the sacrifices that he and his wife made to give Kumail a more comfortable life in America and the small sacrifice that they ask in return: “Be a good Muslim and marry a Pakistani girl.” It’s a fine moment, but, though it suggests the wider historical perspectives of cultural change, it never renders them in individual, intimate terms; the scene’s touch of melodrama remains generic.

__The Stifled Desires Behind Acrush, the Chinese Boy Band Made Up of Five Girls__
By Jiayang Fan July 1, 2017

Just when you thought the boy-band phenomenon had finally run its course (in how many more directions can One Direction go?), a Chinese iteration goes and renovates the form. At first blush, the five members of Acrush (the “A” stands for Adonis, the Greek god of male beauty) resemble the prototypical Simon Cowell-culled group: boyishly handsome, impeccably groomed, freakishly flawless in a way that mortal teen-agers typically aren’t. There is, however, one difference. Underneath the leather jackets, Timberland boots, and conspicuously masculine posturing, the group is comprised of five cisgender girls.

It’s like this: in China, the relationship between a man and a woman is really complicated by the respective families, their wishes and worries and unsexy financial issues. Reality always intrudes on the romance before it gets very romantic.

Despite exposure to the wider world in recent years, China remains a country rooted in conservatism, with a social hierarchy that is rigid and unforgiving. Norms are carefully guarded and labels upheld: man, woman, father, mother, husband, wife. Confucian ideology, which has defined Chinese culture for millennia, places supreme importance on a person’s responsibility to fulfill the role assigned by his gender, class, and age. To dress and act in a manner that does not accord with your position is to violate a fundamental law of existence. To live for oneself is not only selfish; it is depraved.

She was declared mentally competent to stand trial. 
她被宣告有接受审判的精神能力。
