# Stay Hungry, Stay Foolish: Inspiring Commencement Speeches

## Steve Job's Stanford University Commencement Speech(2005)

Of course it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when I was in college. But it was very, very clear looking backwards 10 years later. Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. You have to trust in something-your gut(勇气), destiny(命运), life, karma(因果报应), whatever. **Because believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart even when it leads you off the well-worn path and that will make all the difference.**

I felt that I had let the previous generation of entrepreneurs down - that I had dropped the baton(接力棒) as it was being passed to me.
I was a very public failure, and I even thought about running away from the valley. But something slowly began to dawn on(使...明白) me-I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit. I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over. I didn’t see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. **The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything.** It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.

It was awful tasting medicine, but I guess the patient needed it. Sometime life…Sometimes life is gonna hit you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith.

Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. **Because almost everything-all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important.** Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.

Having lived through it, I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept:No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don’t want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share. No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, **because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life. It is Life's change agent. It clears out the old to make way for the new.** Right now the new is you, but someday not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Sorry to be so dramatic, but it's quite true.
Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don’t be trapped by dogma(教条)-which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don’t let the noise of others'opinions drown out(淹没) your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.

## Tim Cook's George Washington University Commencement Speech(2015)

The same George Wallace who in 1963 stood in the schoolhouse door at the University of Alabama to block African Americans from enrolling. **Wallace embraced the evils of segregation(种族隔离主义). He pitted whites against blacks, the South against the North, the working class against the so-called elites.** Meeting my governor was not an honor for me. My heroes in life were Dr. Martin Luther King, and Robert F. Kennedy, who had fought against the very things that Wallace stood for. Keep in mind, that I grew up, or, when I grew up, I grew up in a place that where King and Kennedy were not exactly held in high esteem(尊重, 尊敬).

I found books in the public library that they probably didn’t know they had. They all pointed to the fact that Wallace was wrong. **That injustices like segregation had no place in our world. That equality is a right.** As I said, I was only 16 when I met Governor Wallace, so I shook his hand as we were expected to do. **But shaking his hand felt like a betrayal of my own beliefs. It felt wrong. Like I was selling a piece of my soul.**

For you graduates, the process of discovering yourself, of inventing yourself, of reinventing yourself is about to begin in earnest. It's about finding your values and committing to(致力于) live by them. You have to find your North Star. And that means choices. Some are easy. Some are hard. And some will make you question everything. Twenty years after my visit to Washington, I met someone who made me question everything, who upended all of my assumptions in the very best way.

He had been sent away and he returned to find it in ruins.He didn’t know it at the time, but he was about to dedicate the rest of his life to rescuing it, and leading it to heights greater than anyone could ever imagine. Anyone, that is, except for Steve. Most people have forgotten, but in 1997 and early 1998, Apple had been adrift(漂浮的, 茫然的) for years. Rudderless. But Steve thought Apple could be great again.
His vision for Apple was a company that turned powerful technology into tools that were easy to use, tools that would help people realize their dreams. And change the world for the better.

He was an idealist. And in that way he reminded me of how I felt as a teenager. In that first meeting he convinced me that if we worked hard and made great products, we too could help change the world. And to my surprise, I was hooked. I took the job and changed my life. It's been 17 years and I have never once looked back.

At Apple we believe the work should be more than just about improving your own self. It's about improving the lives of others as well. Our products do amazing things.nd just as Steve envisioned(设想), they empower people all over the world. People who are blind, and need information read to them because they can't see the screen. People for whom technology is a lifeline because they are isolated by distance or disability. People who witness injustice and want to expose it, and now they can because they have a camera in their pocket all the time. Our commitment goes beyond the products themselves to how they're made. To our impact on the environment. To the role we play in demanding and promoting equality. And in improving education. We believe that a company that has values and acts on them can really change the world. And an individual can too.

And work takes on new meaning when you feel you are pointed in the right direction. Otherwise, it's just a job, and life is too short for that. We need the best and brightest of your generation to lead in government and in business. In the science and in the arts. In journalism and in academia. There is honor in all of these pursuits. And there is opportunity to do work that is infused with(注入, 具有) moral purpose. **You don't have to choose between doing good and doing well. It’s a false choice, today more than ever. Your challenge is to find work that pays the rent, puts food on the table, and lets you do what is right and good and just.**

But for the last 17 years I've built a life in Silicon Valley; it's a special place. The kind of place where there’s no problem that can't be solved. No matter how difficult or complex, that's part of its essential quality. A very sincere sort of optimism.
Back in the 90s, Apple ran an advertising campaign we called "Think Different". It was pretty simple. Every ad was a photograph of one of our heroes. **People who had the audacity to challenge and change the way we all live.**
They remind us to live by our deepest values and reach for our highest aspirations.

They make us believe that anything is possible. A friend of mine at Apple likes to say the best way to solve a problem is to walk into a room full of Apple engineers and proclaim, "this is impossible". I can tell you, they will not accept that. And neither should you.

There will always be cynics and critics on the sidelines(置身局外, 旁观) tearing people down, and just as harmful are those people with good intentions who make no contribution at all. In his letter from the Birmingham jail, Dr. King wrote that our society needed to repent, not merely for the hateful words of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people. The sidelines(边线(之外)) are not where you want to live your life. The world needs you in the arena. There are problems that need to be solved. Injustices that need to be ended. People that are still being persecuted, diseases still in need of cure. No matter what you do next, the world needs your energy. Your passion. Your impatience with progress. Don't shrink from risk. And tune out(不理会) those critics and cynics. History rarely yields to(让步于) one person, but think, and never forget, what happens when it does.
